As you saw in the first
week of the course,
training LLMs is
computationally intensive.
Full fine-tuning requires memory
not just to store the model,
but various other
parameters that are
required during the
training process.
Even if your computer can
hold the model weights,
which are now on the
order of hundreds
of gigabytes for
the largest models,
you must also be
able to allocate
memory for optimizer states,
gradients, forward activations,
and temporary memory throughout
the training process.
These additional components
can be many times larger than
the model and can quickly become
too large to handle
on consumer hardware.
In contrast to full
fine-tuning where
every model weight is updated
during supervised learning,
parameter efficient
fine tuning methods
only update a small
subset of parameters.
Some path techniques freeze
most of the model
weights and focus
on fine tuning a subset of
existing model parameters,
for example, particular
layers or components.
Other techniques don't touch
the original model
weights at all,
and instead add a
small number of
new parameters or layers and
fine-tune only the
new components.
With PEFT, most if not all
of the LLM weights
are kept frozen.
As a result, the number of
trained parameters is much
smaller than the number of
parameters in the original LLM.
In some cases, just 15-20%
of the original LLM weights.
This makes the
memory requirements
for training much
more manageable.
In fact, PEFT can often be
performed on a single GPU.
And because the original LLM is
only slightly modified
or left unchanged,
PEFT is less prone to
the catastrophic forgetting
problems of full fine-tuning.
Full fine-tuning results
in a new version of
the model for every
task you train on.
Each of these is the same
size as the original model,
so it can create an
expensive storage problem
if you're fine-tuning
for multiple tasks.
Let's see how you can use PEFT
to improve the situation.
With parameter
efficient fine-tuning,
you train only a small
number of weights,
which results in a much
smaller footprint overall,
as small as megabytes
depending on the task.
The new parameters
are combined with
the original LLM
weights for inference.
The PEFT weights are trained for
each task and can be easily
swapped out for inference,
allowing efficient adaptation of
the original model
to multiple tasks.
There are several
methods you can use for
parameter efficient fine-tuning,
each with trade-offs on
parameter efficiency,
memory efficiency,
training speed,
model quality, and
inference costs.
Let's take a look at
the three main classes
of PEFT methods.
Selective methods are
those that fine-tune only
a subset of the original
LLM parameters.
There are several approaches
that you can take to
identify which parameters
you want to update.
You have the option to train
only certain components of
the model or specific layers,
or even individual
parameter types.
Researchers have found that
the performance of these
methods is mixed and there are
significant trade-offs between
parameter efficiency
and compute efficiency.
We won't focus on
them in this course.
Reparameterization
methods also work
with the original
LLM parameters,
but reduce the number of
parameters to train by creating
new low rank transformations
of the original network weights.
A commonly used technique
of this type is LoRA,
which we'll explore in
detail in the next video.
Lastly, additive methods
carry out fine-tuning
by keeping all of
the original LLM weights
frozen and introducing
new trainable components.
Here there are two
main approaches.
Adapter methods add
new trainable layers
to the architecture
of the model,
typically inside the
encoder or decoder
components after the attention
or feed-forward layers.
Soft prompt methods,
on the other hand,
keep the model architecture
fixed and frozen,
and focus on manipulating
the input to achieve
better performance.
This can be done by adding
trainable parameters to
the prompt embeddings
or keeping the input
fixed and retraining
the embedding weights.
In this lesson,
you'll take a look at
a specific soft prompts
technique called prompt tuning.
First, let's move on to
the next video and
take a closer look at
the LoRA method and see how it
reduces the memory
required for training